redraft configuring Astro (#10063)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/configuring-astro.mdx

})
```

It is only required if you have something to configure, but most projects will use this file. The `defineConfig()` helper provides automatic IntelliSense in your IDE and is where you will add all your configuration options to tell Astro how to build and render your project to HTML.

We recommend using the default file format `.mjs` in most cases, or `.ts` if you want to write TypeScript in your config file. However, `astro.config.js` and `astro.config.cjs` are also supported.

<ReadMore>Read Astro's [configuration reference](/en/reference/configuration-reference/) for a full overview of all supported configuration options.</ReadMore>

## The TypeScript config File

Every Astro starter project includes a `tsconfig.json` file in your project. Astro's [component script](/en/basics/astro-components/#the-component-script) is Typescript, which provides Astro's editor tooling and allows you to optionally add syntax to your JavaScript for type checking of your own project code.

Use the `tsconfig.json` file to configure the TypeScript template that will perform type checks on your code, configure TypeScript plugins, set import aliases, and more.

> <ReadMore>Read Astro's [TypeScript guide](/en/reference/configuration-reference/) for a full overview of TypeScript options and Astro's built-in utility types.</ReadMore>

Reviewer: nit: I think this should be a link to Typescript, not Configuration reference:
```suggestion
<ReadMore>Read Astro's [TypeScript guide](/en/guides/typescript/) for a full overview of TypeScript options and Astro's built-in utility types.</ReadMore>
```

If this is your first Astro project, or if it's been a while since you've set up a new project, use the following guides and reference in the documentation for assistance.

## The Astro config File

The [Astro config file](/en/reference/configuration-reference/) is a JavaScript file included at the root of every starter project:

```js
// astro.config.mjs
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config'

export default defineConfig({
  // your configuration options here...
})
```

It is only required if you have something to configure, but most projects will use this file. The `defineConfig()` helper provides automatic IntelliSense in your IDE and is where you will add all your configuration options to tell Astro how to build and render your project to HTML.

We recommend using the default file format `.mjs` in most cases, or `.ts` if you want to write TypeScript in your config file. However, `astro.config.js` and `astro.config.cjs` are also supported.

<ReadMore>Read Astro's [configuration reference](/en/reference/configuration-reference/) for a full overview of all supported configuration options.</ReadMore>

> ## The TypeScript config File

Reviewer 2: I might have been tempted to go even more minimal (e.g. link cards to the relevant docs for TS + editors) but these are great 👍

---
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <Head />
    <!-- -->
  </head>
  <body><!-- --></body>
</html>
```

Because `Head.astro` is just a regular Astro component, you can import files and receive props passed from other components, such as a specific page title.

```astro title="src/components/Head.astro"
---
import Favicon from '../assets/Favicon.astro';
import SomeOtherTags from './SomeOtherTags.astro';
const { title = 'My Astro Website', ...props } = Astro.props;
---
<link rel="sitemap" href="/sitemap-index.xml">
<title>{title}</title>
<meta name="description" content="Welcome to my new Astro site!">

<!-- Web analytics -->
<script data-goatcounter="https://my-account.goatcounter.com/count" async src="//gc.zgo.at/count.js"></script>

<!-- Open Graph tags -->
<meta property="og:title" content="My New Astro Website" />
<meta property="og:type" content="website" />
<meta property="og:url" content="http://www.example.com/" />
<meta property="og:description" content="Welcome to my new Astro site!" />
<meta property="og:image" content="https://www.example.com/_astro/seo-banner.BZD7kegZ.webp">
<meta property="og:image:alt" content="">

<SomeOtherTags />

<Favicon />
```

> ### Reference relative Files

Reviewer 2: Neither this nor the “customize output filenames” examples are “common new project tasks” I don’t think. The filenames one is maybe a recipe? It should be a niche requirement (and one I’d recommend against unless someone _has_ to do this for some weird reason in their deploy setup). Definitely not something to recommend doing in a new project (and we’re mostly re-documenting Vite here, but necessarily so given it’s not so uncommon for someone to ask how to do this).

Referencing relative files also is _kind_ of niche, although admittedly very directly configuration-related. If the main usage is `root`, I might even be tempted to move this into the config reference for `root`…

  root: 'project',
  // Resolves to the "./project/public" directory in your current working directory
  publicDir: 'public',
})
```

To reference a file or directory relative to the configuration file, use `import.meta.url` (unless you are writing a common.js `astro.config.cjs` file).

```js title="astro.config.mjs" "import.meta.url"
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config'

export default defineConfig({
  // Resolves to the "./project" directory, relative to this config file
  root: new URL("./project", import.meta.url).toString(),
  // Resolves to the "./public" directory, relative to this config file
  publicDir: new URL("./public", import.meta.url).toString(),
})
```

:::note 
Vite-specific `import.meta` properties, like `import.meta.env` or `import.meta.glob`, are _not_ accessible from your configuration file. We recommend alternatives like [dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) or [fast-glob](https://github.com/mrmlnc/fast-glob) for these respective use cases.

In addition, [tsconfig path aliases](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#paths) will not be resolved. Use relative paths for module imports in this file.

> :::

Reviewer 2: This note seems kind of irrelevant to this section? Whether we keep, move, or delete the section, we might want to delete this note.

---
import ReadMore from '~/components/ReadMore.astro'

Here are some common new project configuration steps for your new Astro site.

## The Astro Config File

The [Astro config file](/en/reference/configuration-reference/) at the root of your project is used to your Astro project:

```js
// astro.config.mjs
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config'

export default defineConfig({
  // your configuration options here...
})
```

> A JavaScript configuration file is included in every starter project created with our CLI wizard `create astro`. It is only required if you have something to configure, but most projects will use this file.

Author: That sounds great! The previous seemed a little heavy for a "quick set up stuff" page, but yours is great! 🙌
